Welcome back in in the previous lesson we built out a list of friends we can vote on those friends and
we can see that we've got a list that's coming out of an array.
So in this lesson what I wanted to do is I actually want to update our Tamal and do that dynamically
via javascript.
So first thing that we need to do is we need to create an input field and a button to be clicked and
using that.
So we're just going to create a div to wrap around it and then we'll do our input.
So type and just make this a text field and we're going to give this one an ID
so we'll give it an ID of a friend.
So basically this is going to be our field where we can add a new friend into our list.
So the thing that we need is a way to actually submit the button.
So we'll do another input and this time the type will be button and adding and clicking that button
will add a new value into the end of our list here.
So visually as well as into our array you all are using javascript.
So let's set up this button and we're going to give this one an ID so that we can simply access.
So it will have an idea of add new and let's add a value here.
So this will be friend so go ahead and save that.
Go out and refresh it.
So now we've got our spot here where we can add new people to the array.
So we need to make some hookups first.
And one of the first things that we need to do is hook up the ability for this button to become clickable.
And so we can pick up that button click and actually do something.
So go ahead and pause the video and set that up grab that button and add a click event within the javascript
and I'll show you how to do that.
Coming up as well.
So we had the opportunity to set that up.
And so what we want to do whenever we click this button we want to fire off a function.
So let's set that up.
Now so first of all let's grab that element so we can make use of that.
So that's the add new.
So we'll just call it new as well and we'll use document and get element by id and then here we just
need to identify that element.
So that way we hooked up went to the new object within our script and we're all ready to make our event
object.
So let's grab a new and do the on click event to it.
And what we want to do is we want to fire off a function.
So let's set this up and we're going to just do an anonymous function.
So we're not going to have any name for it.
And we can continue to build out all the functionality that we need within this function over here.
So what do we need to do within this function in order to make this happen.
So we need to pick up the value from input.
So that's the first thing that we need to do.
Next thing we need to do.
Add it to the array and then also we need to add it to the H.T. MLM and once we do that then we're all
ready to go.
And these are the three functions that we need to add in within this function to handle when this event
gets clicked.
So let's start with the first one.
So go ahead.
Pause the video and create a variable to pick up the input that's contained within this element within
this input field.
So the friend input field
so I'm going to create a placeholder here and I'm just going to use the variable Q And then down here
when I actually are going to set that up as a local variable within this function.
So we don't need to do it globally and always whenever you can do it locally try to do it locally.
So lets up.
Q And within.
Q We're going to hold documents and we're going to do get element by id and we're going to select that
value that's contained within the ad friend.
So with that ad friend object that ad front element we want to pick up the value.
So that's what we want to do here.
So that solves our first item that we need to do within this function.
So the next part is that we need to add it to the array.
So again if you could pause the video and add this brand new value into the my array and we saw how
to do this earlier when we were building arrays so I show you the solution in order to add it to the
erate So you specify the array name and we do push and what pushes going to do is that's going to add
whatever value we've got here within the rounded brackets.
And that's going to add that into the array.
So now comes the interesting part when we actually connect with the Dom and we update our h t m l so
we're going to use a builtin method that's available within Javascript.
So let's first of all we need to create our element so we're going to just create a t r so using the
format.
And we're going to use the method create element.
So this basically allows us to create an alarm element using javascript and element that we're creating
is a TR.
So the next thing that we need to do is create a TV so that would be our element where we can actually
hold the values.
So the table cell.
So again we're going to use create element and we're going to go ahead and create a team element.
So now we've created two elements.
And what we want to do is we want to append that Tedi into the TR.
So the way to do that is use TR and the method append child.
So we're basically adding a child into the TR element and the child that we're adding is TV.
So this is going to give us a brain you roll with T.D. added into it.
So next thing that we need to do is we need to actually add in we need to add this roll into the H Tim
L and before we do that I want to still append.
So I want to create.
So this will be my t d text and within here this is where I actually going to create a text note.
So this one is create or it should be document.
We always need to start out with document.
So document and create So we've got a number of options here and what we're creating is a tax code.
So basically this is what we can use in order to create that text that's going to be sitting in side
of the field.
So first of all we know that we should create a number.
So let's just start.
And we're going to create 10 so we're going to update this to be more dynamic later on.
But for now let's just work on getting that element here and we're going to be adding it to the bottom
of our element our element table here.
So the next challenge is to actually traverse over into the dorm and find out where our table is located
because we need to attach this element that we've newly created and we've added in some value into the
T.D..
So actually we need to still append that child.
So let's just go back and we'll do in appending of that text information so to the TV and we're going
to pinned a child into there and the child that we're appending is that t text.
So now we should be ready to add that element.
And the next step is that we need to attach to the table.
So let's create and let's create a variable and we'll just call it that container.
And this is where we're going to have to locate where the table is located.
So we're going to do a query selector
so using query selector and we need to actually find out where this table is located.
So we've got a few hints that we know that it's within output and we know that there's a table element
within output.
So let's let's add let's console log this out.
So a log out the two values that we have so far.
So do console directory and we'll output out container
so output the value of container
and then also we wanted to output the value of that newly created element to the TR.
So we're going to output that one as well.
So we can take a closer look at the one we created and where we're actually going to deposit.
So let's go back and refresh it.
And now let's just type something in here and do test so we can see that we've got our table.
So we've selected the right table and we've got our TR And we've got a child in there so we've got one
child in there a TV and that TV contains some text.
Got to go all the way down to the bottom.
So we've got our text content is 10.
So ultimately we're still going to have to create two more cells and I'll show you how to do that upcoming
as well.
But for now we've got all of the information ready.
And now what we need to do is append the TV TR into the TV Cell So going by what we've just done here
where we've created an element and besides creating the element we see once we've created that element
we can actually also grab an element and we can append information into those elements.
So what I want you to do now is add in the new table row that we've created the TR value into the container.
So pause the video and try that out.
So notice that the structure is the same that when we do list this information out.
So if I listed out here so the table we get we get it as an object and the TR we get within that same
type of object format.
So we know that when we created a T.D. we could add it into the T by using a pen child.
So go ahead.
Pause the video and try it out and I'll show you the solution coming up.
So if you had an opportunity to try that out and the solution to it is following that same format where
we can append a child and we're going to append TR into that container.
So let's go out and refresh.
And so let's type in a value there so we typed in test and there we go so we see that we are able to
append an item there.
And now the next thing that we need to do is we need to finish this off and we need to add in the other
elements as well.
And we also need to make this dynamic so we know that this number here is related to how many items
we had within our array originally.
And as we push more content into the array This is always going to dynamically change.
So we can use the length of the array to determine what this number is going to be.
We know that the ADD friend value is going to be the second column and the third column is going to
start at zero.
So go ahead and make those updates and pause the video and I'll show you the solution coming up.
So what we want is this right now we're typing and test when we hit add friend.
It should go here at the bottom of the list.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to shorten some of this because we do have quite a bit of stuff
going on here.
And I can shorten it by doing this so I don't have to have as many variables in there because we're
going to be actually doing quite a bit here.
So that's the first thing that we want to do is we want to append that Tee-Tee.
So we want to spend it with the text node
and this value is related to the length of my array.
So know if we get that in my array length right now it's going to be 9.
We want it to show up as 10.
So we need to add 1 to that.
So let's go ahead and try that out.
And just to make sure I actually going to get rid of some of these items here in the array just to make
it simpler so we can see it on one page.
Go back out and refresh it.
So now let me add a friend.
So now we're getting six so we know that because what's happened here is we're already pushing it into
the array.
So there is a choice.
We can move it down here at the bottom and push it into the race at that point.
So that's what happened there.
So let's go back and refresh it and make sure that the next value is going to be 5.
So we saw how we could create that cell and now we need to create one that contains the text node of
the name of the information that we've set up there.
So I want you again to pause the video and instead of just adding that one I want you to do that same
format that we've done over here and create another table cell.
So we've already used TDD and we've already attached it.
So let's do TV again and this time we're going to create another brand new brand new TV.
And this time instead of attaching the text note of this let's delete that out and we want to attach
the brand new value of q that we've picked up here.
And then also we need to append it into our TR so we can do that as we've just created it.
We can append that to TR.
So going backwards and do it that way.
So go back and refreshed and let's try this again.
So now when we hit add friend there we go.
So we're able to add that test value and then so we need to do one more where we need to add the value
of 0.
So let's try that as well.
And I can get rid of these console logs because we're not going to making use of those right now either.
So we've got one more that we need to do and we can literally copy out that same format that we had
here and just paste it in again.
And lastly for this one the value is simply going to be just 0.
So let's go ahead refresh our page and try it out.
So hopefully now I should add in all of those values.
And the one thing that we noticed that we don't have the right attributes yet to it.
So that's the next thing that we need to do.
We need to add in the ability to make a clickable and update and so on.
So we know that when ever we go over to the array that array holds all of those values.
So that's working.
Right.
We just need to get the visuals that we need to hook up those listeners for that brand new element that
we created.
So in the next lesson we'll show you how to do that.